In a lot of companies,
developers do not do the DevOps part of the operations.
There are separate teams that take care of the DevOps part of the operations.
By DevOps I'm mean that team that is primarily responsible
for setting up the CICD pipeline,
or taking care of issues that weighs in the setup.
Sometimes what happens is that both the DevOps as well as developer team is all single,
so the developer is also supposed to understand or be
able to build the Jenkins pipeline or the CICD pipeline,
and is responsible to take care of
the entire deployment process in different environments.
So whichever model you work on,
knowing these skills is definitely going to be extremely important
and be helpful so that you can at least interact with a DevOps team,
or maybe you choose to be in the DevOps team.
Let's look into the origin of the entire pipeline which is the source control.
We are going to take example of Git here.
You have been using Git for all the previous lessons
so I'm pretty sure that you are a little more comfortable with it already.
There are two or three topics that I'd like to cover,
you don't need to master Git for starting this pipeline.
But it will be nice to understand how merging and branching works in this.
So back in the day,
we used to use something called CVS or subversion
world where merging and branching was extremely complicated.
However, Git happens to be centralized, but still decentralized.
What this means is that merging and branching are the core part of the daily workflow.
So which is why Git happens to be an extremely good choice for source control for us.
Let's look at how branching works in Git.
Let's say that we have one branch,
and let's call this massiver convenience,
and in a lot of companies they use a convention of calling the main branch as master.
However there is no concept of main range.
It's a distributed system,
so any branch can be technically a main branch,
and any branch can technically be
a non-main branch irrespective of what name they give you.
So when your work as a developer is to
understand which branch is the main branch where development happens,
and which branch happens to be the production branch.
Now, in this particular model that I am talking about,
we will be speaking about just the branching technology.
So we are talking about let's say the Dev branch here.
So this is our development branch,
and we have four developers in this system.
All these blue branches are developers.
So at any point in time,
any developer as you see here is able to pull from
the development branch and also merge
their code into the development branch or the Dev branch.
At the same time,
Git also allows you to fetch the code from your peer branches as well.
So let's call this user A and this is user B.
So user A and B,
if they are working on one specific feature which user C and D are not working on,
then they can collaborate by fetching and merging into each other's branch.
This is what we would call a subteam system.
So since it is distributed,
Git allows you all these functionalities.
Next what we're going to understand is how we do that on the Git UI.
But in case you want to learn more about Git,
I would be linking the videos to Udacity free courses that talk more in-depth about Git.